# Masters_thesis
Performance Evaluation of Containerised Virtual Network Functions on the Edge network and in the Cloud

## Abstract 
Cloud service providers implement Virtual Network Functions (VNFs) with container technology rather than traditional virtual machines (VMs). Docker is an increasingly popular container technology in recent years. Docker, like other container technologies, increases cloud operations' agility and decreases their cost, while also enhancing application encapsulation and deployment performance. Since VNFs are implemented with virtual machines VMs, significant overheads are added to the operating system running VMs, and even more so when considering Infrastructures with large-scale micro-service applications. Our research endeavor will study Docker networking technology options for VNF performance on the Edge network and in the cloud. On the networks, latency and throughput were analyzed and evaluated for the two Linux bridge and Open vSwitch (OVS) techniques. Our results demonstrate that the Linux bridge has 22 percent less latency than the OVS network and 18 percent more throughput than the OVS bridge on average.\

 We constructed two architecture scenarios with comparable resources, one utilizing virtualization at the network's edge (Host-in-the-lab) and the other utilizing virtualization on a cloud platform. We discover that in the first situation, where virtualization is located at the network's edge, performance is superior. In the preceding case, throughput is boosted by 18\%. This is due to the inclusion of the Data Plane Development Kit (DPDK) to the host of the edge network, which expedites packet processing.
